# Exercise 11
## Sockets

Reading: Chapter 11 of *Head First C*.

1) Read, compile and run `advice_server.c`, which is the example from
page 474 of *Head First C*.

That's some mediocre advice.

2) In another window, use `telnet` to connect to your server, as on page 475.

...cool, it never insulted my haircut. Thanks, I guess?

3) Read, compile and run `wiki_client.c`, which is based on the
example on page 497.  Note: It looks like Wikipedia might not like the
format of this request any more, possible because it requires HTTPS.
If you get a version of this to work, let me know.  But we don't need it
to work for this exercise.

4) Using `wiki_client.c` as an example, write `advice_client.c`, a
client that connects to `advice_server` and prints a reply.

I think that this means print it to itself, not send a reply back? Now it responds.

5) Read, compile and run `ikkp_server.c`, which is based on the
example on page 483.

...ah. This one listens. Fine.

6) In another window, use `telnet` to connect to `ikkp_server`, as on page 484.

That's just... bad???

7) Make a copy of `ikkp_server.c` called `ikkp_server_fork.c` and modify it
so it forks a new process for each connection, as on page 487.

Did it!

8) Confirm that you can have more than one connection to the server going at
the same time.

Yep. Same joke though.

9) Make a copy of `ikkp_server.c` called `ikkp_server_thread.c` and modify it
so it creates a new thread for each
connection.

Got it.

10) Confirm can have more than one connection to the server going at
the same time.

Yes, can do.

11) Modify `say` so it deliberately causes a segmentation fault.  Confirm that
when you run `ikkp_server_fork.c`, the child process can die without taking
down the server.  Confirm that when you run `ikkp_server_thread.c`, any thread
that crashes takes down the server.

Thus far, unable to cause a seg fault.

12) Check your modified and new files in to the repo.
