# Exercise 2
## Pointers


### The address space

1. Compile and run `aspace.c` in this directory.

2. Read the code.  You might want to [read about malloc here](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/c_standard_library/c_function_malloc.htm).

3. Based on the output, draw a sketch of the virtual address space (see page 80 of HFC).  Show the relative locations of the stack, heap, globals, constants, and code.


### Stack allocated data

1.  Read `stack.c`, which should be in this directory.  What is it
intended to do?  What would the output be if the program worked as
expected?

I believe that what it intends to do is create an array that counts from 0 to 4. It should then print out these digits.

2.  Compile it.  Do you get a warning?  What does it mean?

warning: function returns address of local variable
Local variables only exist over the course of their own function, so array is going to get overwritten as soon as the function ends, except maybe the first location, where the pointer specifically refers to. This may be because the variable array in main() contains no information that would suggest it stretches any further than that one int address, known as 'decay'.

3.  Run it.  What happens?  You might get a segmentation fault, or you might get
some strange output.  Can you explain it?  You might find it
helpful to draw a stack diagram.

We get a load of nonsense: 0, 0, -50504064, 32669, -50416128. See my above explanation of stack and such. Also, note that the first int is in fact 0, so the pointer remains true.

4.  Comment out the `print` statements in `foo()` and `bar()` and run
it again.  What happens now?

Now it prints out 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, like it is supposed to. I think the array pointer, as a pointer, lives on the 

5.  Add comments to the code to explain these experiments and the results,
then check the code in to the repo.

Moral: Don't return pointers to stack allocated data!


### Write some code

Create a file named `adder.c` and write a program that allows the user to enter integers, one per line, until the user hits Control-D, which is the end-of-file (EOF) character.

It should convert the numbers from input strings to integers and store the integers in an array.  The program should produce appropriate error messages if the user enters something that exceeds the length of the input buffer, or can't be converted to an integer.  It should also produce an error message if the user enters more numbers than will fit in the array.

After the user enters Control-D, the program should add up the numbers in the array and print the result.  

Your program should be divided into at least two functions with well designed interfaces.

Optionally, the program should produce an error if the sum exceeds the largest integer that can be represented.

Hint: You will probably want to use two functions we haven't seen yet:

* strlen: [Read about it here](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/c_standard_library/c_function_strlen.htm)

* atoi: [Read about it here](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/c_standard_library/c_function_atoi.htm)

Before you use there functions, you need to `#include <string.h>`.