# Exercise 8

## Intro to GLib

One of the goals of this exercise is for you to practice orienting
yourself to a new library by reading documentation and examples.  By
"orienting" I mean the process of exploring and building a mental map
of the landscape.  And by "landscape" I mean the set of features
provided by the library, and the idioms the library provides.  And by
"idioms" I mean the patterns, style, and practices associated with the
library.

1) Skim the [documentation of
GLib](https://developer.gnome.org/glib/stable/index.html) and [the
Wikipedia page on GLib](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GLib), targeting
answers to these questions:

*  Where is GLib from and why does it exist?  Who uses it, and for
what?  Would it have been better if they had given it a name less
likely to be confused with `glibc`?

GLib is from GNOME, mostly, and exists to provide a variety of low-level building blocks that can be used cross-platform. It is the non-GUI code from GTK+, and, being cross-platform, can be ported across different operating systems without major alteration. Thus, the most likely users are developers who are trying to design things for multiple OSes. And yes, a different name would have been nice.

*  What are the most important pros and cons of using GLib, as opposed
to another library, or just using core C features?

GLib is cross-platform, it handles threads well but no matter what always has at least 2, and a lot of the standardly-used types are already built out and defined, so you wouldn't have to start from scratch. Using this over another library could be good because it is established. However, compilation on a different OS can be more difficult, because GLib hides the differences between systems.

*  What do you have to do to compile and run a "Hello GLib" example?

First, install and compile the GLib package. Second, use the pkg-config utility to tell the compiler where things are. Then compile it. Something like:

```
cc hello.c `pkg-config --cflags --libs glib-2.0` -o hello
```

2) Install Glib (detail to follow)

3) Read [this Glib
tutorial](http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/linux/tutorials/l-glib/)
Their first example, `ex_compile.c`, is in this directory.
Following their instructions, compile it on the command line and run it.

Used

```
gcc `pkg-config --cflags glib-2.0` -o ex_compile ex_compile.c `pkg-config --libs glib-2.0`
./ex_compile
```

 to compile and run.


4) Write a `Makefile` that compiles `ex_compile.c` cleanly.

Done!

5) Write a program called `word_count.c` that reads a text file,
splits lines into words, and counts the frequency of each word.  You
can download interesting text files from Project Gutenberg.

*  How to handle punctuation:  

Basic version: Ignore it.  Just treat everything between whitespace as
a "word."

Optional: Strip punctuation so that at least most of your words are words.

* How to display results:

Basic: Print the list of unique words and their frequencies in any order.

Optional: Sort the words and print them in order of frequency.

You should use Glib types, functions and data structures wherever
possible (and appropriate).  You should check the return values of all
function calls and handle errors appropriately.  You can work on
deallocating your data structures if you want.  You will have the
option of working on this part in a future exercise.

6) Modify the `Makefile` to compile `word_count.c`.

7) Check in `word_count.c` and `Makefile`.
