# Exercise 8

## Intro to GLib

One of the goals of this exercise is for you to practice orienting
yourself to a new library by reading documentation and examples.  By
"orienting" I mean the process of exploring and building a mental map
of the landscape.  And by "landscape" I mean the set of features
provided by the library, and the idioms the library provides.  And by
"idioms" I mean the patterns, style, and practices associated with the
library.

1) Skim the [documentation of
GLib](https://developer.gnome.org/glib/stable/index.html) and [the
Wikipedia page on GLib](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GLib), targeting
answers to these questions:

*  Where is GLib from and why does it exist?  Who uses it, and for
what?  Would it have been better if they had given it a name less
likely to be confused with `glibc`?

GLib is from GNOME, mostly, and exists to provide a variety of low-level building blocks that can be used cross-platform. It is the non-GUI code from GTK+, and, being cross-platform, can be ported across different operating systems without major alteration. Thus, the most likely users are developers who are trying to design things for multiple OSes. And yes, a different name would have been nice.

*  What are the most important pros and cons of using GLib, as opposed
to another library, or just using core C features?

GLib is cross-platform, it handles threads well but no matter what always has at least 2, and a lot of the standardly-used types are already built out and defined, so you wouldn't have to start from scratch. Using this over another library could be good because it is established. However, compilation on a different OS can be more difficult, because GLib hides the differences between systems.

*  What do you have to do to compile and run a "Hello GLib" example?

<<<<<<< HEAD
First, install and compile the GLib package. Second, use the pkg-config utility to tell the compiler where things are. Then compile it. Something like:

```
cc hello.c `pkg-config --cflags --libs glib-2.0` -o hello
```

2) Install Glib (detail to follow)
=======
2) Install Glib
>>>>>>> 4d6813e90864d552beb5025d51333ea5c4e61ba6

If you don't already have Glib installed, you will have to install it.
I won't provide instructions, since part of the exercise is to find them!


3) Read [this Glib tutorial](http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/linux/tutorials/l-glib/)
Their first example, `ex_compile.c`, is in this directory.
Following their instructions, compile it on the command line and run it.

<<<<<<< HEAD
Used

```
gcc `pkg-config --cflags glib-2.0` -o ex_compile ex_compile.c `pkg-config --libs glib-2.0`
./ex_compile
```

 to compile and run.

=======
Note: I am not providing a lot of scaffolding because figuring out how to get 
this done is part of the exercise.

If you experience a moderate amount of frustration, I encourage you to persist,
because I think there is some valuable meta-cognition in this task:

* Meta-debugging: reflecting on your processes for getting things working, being aware of your strategies and which ones are working, or not.
* Explore vs exploit decisions: when should you persevere and when you should pivot?

However, you should not persist for an unreasonable amount of time.  If you are very stuck,
don't hesitate to get help from an instructor (or another student).
>>>>>>> 4d6813e90864d552beb5025d51333ea5c4e61ba6

4) Write a `Makefile` that compiles `ex_compile.c` cleanly.

Done!

5) Write a program called `word_count.c` that reads a text file,
splits lines into words, and counts the frequency of each word. 

You should use Glib types, functions and data structures wherever
possible (and appropriate).  You should check the return values of all
function calls and handle errors appropriately.  You don't have to
free your data structures; we will work on that in a future exercise.

You can download interesting text files from Project Gutenberg.

*  How to handle punctuation:  

Basic version: Ignore it.  Just treat everything between whitespace as
a "word."

Optional: Strip punctuation so that at least most of your words are words.

* How to display results:

Basic: Print the list of unique words and their frequencies in any order.

Optional: Sort the words and print them in order of frequency.

6) Modify the `Makefile` to compile `word_count.c`.

7) Check in `word_count.c` and `Makefile`.

Optional: as you reflect on the challenges and joys of installing and working
with a new library, consider reading [this blog article on the pains of the command line](http://www.pgbovine.net/command-line-bullshittery.htm)
and [this rebuttal](https://medium.com/@eytanadar/on-the-value-of-command-line-bullshittery-94dc19ec8c61). 
